doc/admin/http_https_configuration.md, before:

# Sourcegraph HTTP and HTTPS/SSL configuration

Overview:

- [Single Docker image (`sourcegraph/server`): NGINX](#sourcegraph-single-instance-docker)
- [Sourcegraph Cluster (Kubernetes): NGINX](#sourcegraph-cluster-kubernetes)
- [Docker Compose: Caddy 2](#sourcegraph-via-docker-compose-caddy-2)
- [Other Sourcegraph clusters (e.g. pure-docker)](#other-sourcegraph-clusters-e-g-pure-docker)

## Sourcegraph single Docker image and Sourcegraph Cluster (Kubernetes): NGINX

Sourcegraph's single Docker image and Kubernetes deployments use [NGINX](https://www.nginx.com/resources/glossary/nginx/) as a [reverse proxy](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx/admin-guide/web-server/reverse-proxy/) for the Sourcegraph front-end server, meaning NGINX proxies external HTTP (and [HTTPS](#nginx-ssl-https-configuration)) requests to the Sourcegraph front-end.

![NGINX and Sourcegraph architecture](img/sourcegraph-nginx.svg)

**Note**: Non-sighted users can view a [text-representation of this diagram](sourcegraph-nginx-mermaid.md).

### Sourcegraph single instance (Docker)

The first time Sourcegraph is run, it will create an [`nginx.conf`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/main/cmd/server/shared/assets/nginx.conf) file at:

- `~/.sourcegraph/config/nginx.conf` on the Docker/Sourcegraph host (presuming you're using the [quickstart `docker run` command](../index.md#quickstart))
- `/etc/sourcegraph/nginx.conf` inside the container

[SSL support requires manual editing](#nginx-ssl-https-configuration) of the NGINX configuration file if using the [quickstart docker run command](../index.md#quickstart) as it presumes local or internal usage.

### Sourcegraph Cluster (Kubernetes)

We use the [ingress-nginx](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/) for Sourcegraph Cluster running on Kubernetes. Refer to the [deploy-sourcegraph Configuration](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph/blob/master/docs/configure.md) documentation for more information.

### NGINX SSL/HTTPS configuration

#### If you have a valid SSL certificate

**1.** Copy your SSL certificate and key to `~/.sourcegraph/config` (where the `nginx.conf` file is).

**2.** Edit `nginx.conf` so that port `7080` redirects to `7443` and `7443` is served with SSL. It should look like this:

```nginx
...
http {
    ...
    server {
        listen 7080;
        return 301 https://$host:7443$request_uri;
    }

    server {
        # Do not remove. The contents of sourcegraph_server.conf can change
        # between versions and may include improvements to the configuration.
        include nginx/sourcegraph_server.conf;

        listen 7443 ssl;
        server_name sourcegraph.example.com;  # change to your URL
        ssl_certificate         sourcegraph.crt;
        ssl_certificate_key     sourcegraph.key;

        location / {
            ...
        }
    }
}
```

#### If you need an SSL certificate

There are a few options:

**[1. Generate a browser-trusted certificate using Let's Encrypt (Certbot)](https://certbot.eff.org/)**<br />

1. On the Certbot homepage, select "Nginx" and the operating system of the machine hosting Sourcegraph.
1. Follow the instructions to install and run Certbot.
  1. If there is currently a process (e.g., Sourcegraph) listening on port 80, you'll
     need to stop it before running Certbot:

     ```
     docker stop $(docker ps | grep sourcegraph/server | awk '{ print $1 }')
     ```
  1. When you get to the step describing how to run Certbot, use the "certonly" command: `sudo certbot certonly --nginx`.
  1. When Certbot runs successfully, it will emit the key file `privkey.pem` and cert file
     `fullchain.pem`. These should be renamed to `sourcegraph.key` and `sourcegraph.crt`,
     respectively, if you are using the `nginx.conf` template mentioned in this doc.
  1. Kill the NGINX server that Certbot started: `killall nginx`. Restart Sourcegraph:

     ```
     docker start $(docker ps -a | grep sourcegraph/server | awk '{ print $1 }')
     ```
  1. Now visit your Sourcegraph instance at `https://${YOUR_URL}`. If there are issues, debug by examining the Docker logs:

     ```
     docker logs $(docker ps | grep sourcegraph/server | awk '{ print $1 }')
     ```

**[2. Generate a self-signed certificate](ssl_https_self_signed_cert_nginx.md)**<br />

For instances that don't yet have a certificate from a [globally trusted Certificate Authority (CA) provider](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority#Providers).

**3. Use your CDN's HTTPS proxy feature**<br />

Some CDNs such as
[Cloudflare](https://support.cloudflare.com/hc/en-us/articles/200170416-End-to-end-HTTPS-with-Cloudflare-Part-3-SSL-options)
can handle the HTTPS connection from the user's browser while allowing the underlying service to
continue serving HTTP (or HTTPS with a self-signed certificate). View your CDN's documentation for
more details.

### Redirect to external HTTPS URL

The URL that clients should use to access Sourcegraph is defined in the `externalURL` property in [site configuration](config/site_config.md). To enforce that clients access Sourcegraph via this URL (and not some other URL, such as an IP address or other non-`https` URL), add the following to `nginx.conf` (replacing `https://sourcegraph.example.com` with your external URL):

``` nginx
# Redirect non-HTTPS traffic to HTTPS.
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name _;

    location / {
        return 301 https://sourcegraph.example.com$request_uri;
    }
}
```

### HTTP Strict Transport Security

[HTTP Strict Transport Security](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_Strict_Transport_Security) instructs web clients to only communicate with the server over HTTPS. To configure it, add the following to `nginx.conf` (in the `server` block):

``` nginx
add_header Strict-Transport-Security "max-age=31536000; includeSubDomains" always;
```

See [`add_header` documentation](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_headers_module.html#add_header) and "[Configuring HSTS in nginx](https://www.nginx.com/blog/http-strict-transport-security-hsts-and-nginx/)" for more details.

### Additional NGINX SSL configuration

See the [NGINX SSL Termination](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx/admin-guide/security-controls/terminating-ssl-http/) guide and [Configuring HTTPS Servers](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/configuring_https_servers.html).

### Next steps

You should configure Sourcegraph's `externalURL` in the [site configuration](config/site_config.md) (and restart the frontend instances) so that Sourcegraph knows its URL.

## Sourcegraph via Docker Compose: Caddy 2

Sourcegraph's [Docker Compose deployment](../admin/install/docker-compose/index.md) uses [Caddy 2](https://caddyserver.com/) as its reverse proxy. The Docker Compose deployment ships with a few builtin templates that cover common scenarios for exposing Sourcegraph:

- plain HTTP
- HTTPS with automatically provisioned Let's Encrypt certificates
- HTTPS with custom certificates that you provide

Usage instructions are provided via [the `caddy` service's inline comments inside the `docker-compose.yaml` definition](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-docker/blob/3.14/docker-compose/docker-compose.yaml#L3:L58).

## Other Sourcegraph clusters (e.g. pure-Docker)

NGINX is not included in the ([pure-Docker deployment](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-docker) as it's designed to be minimal and not tied to any specific reverse proxy.

If NGINX is your preferred reverse proxy, we suggest using [the official NGINX docker images](https://hub.docker.com/_/nginx) and following their instructions for [securing HTTP traffic with a proxied server](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx/admin-guide/security-controls/securing-http-traffic-upstream/).

Commit message:

docs: make it clear that 7443 should be published for single-container SSL (#18954)

doc/admin/http_https_configuration.md, after:

# Sourcegraph HTTP and HTTPS/SSL configuration

Overview:

- [Single Docker image (`sourcegraph/server`): NGINX](#sourcegraph-single-instance-docker)
- [Sourcegraph Cluster (Kubernetes): NGINX](#sourcegraph-cluster-kubernetes)
- [Docker Compose: Caddy 2](#sourcegraph-via-docker-compose-caddy-2)
- [Other Sourcegraph clusters (e.g. pure-docker)](#other-sourcegraph-clusters-e-g-pure-docker)

## Sourcegraph single Docker image and Sourcegraph Cluster (Kubernetes): NGINX

Sourcegraph's single Docker image and Kubernetes deployments use [NGINX](https://www.nginx.com/resources/glossary/nginx/) as a [reverse proxy](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx/admin-guide/web-server/reverse-proxy/) for the Sourcegraph front-end server, meaning NGINX proxies external HTTP (and [HTTPS](#nginx-ssl-https-configuration)) requests to the Sourcegraph front-end.

![NGINX and Sourcegraph architecture](img/sourcegraph-nginx.svg)

**Note**: Non-sighted users can view a [text-representation of this diagram](sourcegraph-nginx-mermaid.md).

### Sourcegraph single instance (Docker)

The first time Sourcegraph is run, it will create an [`nginx.conf`](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/main/cmd/server/shared/assets/nginx.conf) file at:

- `~/.sourcegraph/config/nginx.conf` on the Docker/Sourcegraph host (presuming you're using the [quickstart `docker run` command](../index.md#quickstart))
- `/etc/sourcegraph/nginx.conf` inside the container

SSL support requires two things:
1. [Manual editing](#nginx-ssl-https-configuration) of the NGINX configuration file if using the [quickstart docker run command](../index.md#quickstart) as it presumes local or internal usage.
1. (Now that NGINX is listening on port 7443), we need to configure the Sourcegraph container to forward
443 to 7443 by adding `--publish 443:7443` to the `docker run` command:

```bash
docker container run \
  --rm  \
  --publish 7080:7080 \
  --publish 127.0.0.1:3370:3370 \
  --publish 443:7443 \
  \
  --volume ~/.sourcegraph/config:/etc/sourcegraph  \
  --volume ~/.sourcegraph/data:/var/opt/sourcegraph  \
  sourcegraph/server:3.25.2
```

### Sourcegraph Cluster (Kubernetes)

We use the [ingress-nginx](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/) for Sourcegraph Cluster running on Kubernetes. Refer to the [deploy-sourcegraph Configuration](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph/blob/master/docs/configure.md) documentation for more information.

### NGINX SSL/HTTPS configuration

#### If you have a valid SSL certificate

**1.** Copy your SSL certificate and key to `~/.sourcegraph/config` (where the `nginx.conf` file is).

**2.** Edit `nginx.conf` so that port `7080` redirects to `7443` and `7443` is served with SSL. It should look like this:

```nginx
...
http {
    ...
    server {
        listen 7080;
        return 301 https://$host:7443$request_uri;
    }

    server {
        # Do not remove. The contents of sourcegraph_server.conf can change
        # between versions and may include improvements to the configuration.
        include nginx/sourcegraph_server.conf;

        listen 7443 ssl;
        server_name sourcegraph.example.com;  # change to your URL
        ssl_certificate         sourcegraph.crt;
        ssl_certificate_key     sourcegraph.key;

        location / {
            ...
        }
    }
}
```

#### If you need an SSL certificate

There are a few options:

**[1. Generate a browser-trusted certificate using Let's Encrypt (Certbot)](https://certbot.eff.org/)**<br />

1. On the Certbot homepage, select "Nginx" and the operating system of the machine hosting Sourcegraph.
1. Follow the instructions to install and run Certbot.
  1. If there is currently a process (e.g., Sourcegraph) listening on port 80, you'll
     need to stop it before running Certbot:

     ```
     docker stop $(docker ps | grep sourcegraph/server | awk '{ print $1 }')
     ```
  1. When you get to the step describing how to run Certbot, use the "certonly" command: `sudo certbot certonly --nginx`.
  1. When Certbot runs successfully, it will emit the key file `privkey.pem` and cert file
     `fullchain.pem`. These should be renamed to `sourcegraph.key` and `sourcegraph.crt`,
     respectively, if you are using the `nginx.conf` template mentioned in this doc.
  1. Kill the NGINX server that Certbot started: `killall nginx`. Restart Sourcegraph:

     ```
     docker start $(docker ps -a | grep sourcegraph/server | awk '{ print $1 }')
     ```
  1. Now visit your Sourcegraph instance at `https://${YOUR_URL}`. If there are issues, debug by examining the Docker logs:

     ```
     docker logs $(docker ps | grep sourcegraph/server | awk '{ print $1 }')
     ```

**[2. Generate a self-signed certificate](ssl_https_self_signed_cert_nginx.md)**<br />

_For instances that don't yet have a certificate from a [globally trusted Certificate Authority (CA) provider](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority#Providers)._

**3. Use your CDN's HTTPS proxy feature**<br />

Some CDNs such as
[Cloudflare](https://support.cloudflare.com/hc/en-us/articles/200170416-End-to-end-HTTPS-with-Cloudflare-Part-3-SSL-options)
can handle the HTTPS connection from the user's browser while allowing the underlying service to
continue serving HTTP (or HTTPS with a self-signed certificate). View your CDN's documentation for
more details.

### Redirect to external HTTPS URL

The URL that clients should use to access Sourcegraph is defined in the `externalURL` property in [site configuration](config/site_config.md). To enforce that clients access Sourcegraph via this URL (and not some other URL, such as an IP address or other non-`https` URL), add the following to `nginx.conf` (replacing `https://sourcegraph.example.com` with your external URL):

``` nginx
# Redirect non-HTTPS traffic to HTTPS.
server {
    listen 80;
    server_name _;

    location / {
        return 301 https://sourcegraph.example.com$request_uri;
    }
}
```

### HTTP Strict Transport Security

[HTTP Strict Transport Security](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_Strict_Transport_Security) instructs web clients to only communicate with the server over HTTPS. To configure it, add the following to `nginx.conf` (in the `server` block):

``` nginx
add_header Strict-Transport-Security "max-age=31536000; includeSubDomains" always;
```

See [`add_header` documentation](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_headers_module.html#add_header) and "[Configuring HSTS in nginx](https://www.nginx.com/blog/http-strict-transport-security-hsts-and-nginx/)" for more details.

### Additional NGINX SSL configuration

See the [NGINX SSL Termination](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx/admin-guide/security-controls/terminating-ssl-http/) guide and [Configuring HTTPS Servers](https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/configuring_https_servers.html).

### Next steps

You should configure Sourcegraph's `externalURL` in the [site configuration](config/site_config.md) (and restart the frontend instances) so that Sourcegraph knows its URL.

## Sourcegraph via Docker Compose: Caddy 2

Sourcegraph's [Docker Compose deployment](../admin/install/docker-compose/index.md) uses [Caddy 2](https://caddyserver.com/) as its reverse proxy. The Docker Compose deployment ships with a few builtin templates that cover common scenarios for exposing Sourcegraph:

- plain HTTP
- HTTPS with automatically provisioned Let's Encrypt certificates
- HTTPS with custom certificates that you provide

Usage instructions are provided via [the `caddy` service's inline comments inside the `docker-compose.yaml` definition](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-docker/blob/3.14/docker-compose/docker-compose.yaml#L3:L58).

## Other Sourcegraph clusters (e.g. pure-Docker)

NGINX is not included in the ([pure-Docker deployment](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-docker) as it's designed to be minimal and not tied to any specific reverse proxy.

If NGINX is your preferred reverse proxy, we suggest using [the official NGINX docker images](https://hub.docker.com/_/nginx) and following their instructions for [securing HTTP traffic with a proxied server](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx/admin-guide/security-controls/securing-http-traffic-upstream/).
